[AUDIO LOGO]
>> I'm radio and television
host Jimmy Church.
And I am here to uncover
the truth about some
of life's biggest mysteries.
If this is revealed,
everything has to be rewritten.
My guest today is Richard
Doty, a former officer
of the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations,
renowned for his involvement in
classified government programs
and investigations related
to national security
and extraterrestrial-related
activities.
>> That's creature containment
facility northwest of S2
complex.
>> Creature
containment facility.
>> Yes, we had live ETs there.
>> As always, MUFON
field investigator Josh--
>> Josh, can you
pull up the map?
>> Yeah.
>> --joins us to
help set the scene.
Join us as we dive deep to
get to the bottom of some
of the most intriguing
questions of our time.
>> We have a person that
will testify in Congress.
He works in DIA.
And he will testify that he has
filing cabinets behind his desk
that contain UFO data that's
still highly classified.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome to "Into the Vortex."
I'm Jimmy Church, and today's
another special episode.
Richard Doty, welcome.
>> Thank you, Jimmy.
Good to be here.
>> It's good to see you.
And we've got a
lot to talk about.
Things are jumping today.
And, certainly,
the last five years
for ET and the UFO question
have spun out of control.
Did you ever anticipate
things getting
to where they are
today, where we
have an open discussion,
Washington, DC, various working
groups that we're going
to be talking about now,
things that are in the open,
whistleblowers, Congress,
the Senate, your interaction
with all of that,
and the media?
Did you think that we would
arrive at this moment?
>> No, no, not at all.
When I first started talking
after my NDA expired in 2002,
my efforts were to present
some type of a disclosure plan.
I got involved with the advanced
working group, people I used
to work with in intelligence.
And we had a plan.
But that was in 2002.
We struggled to get the
attention of the mainstream
media from that point until now.
But like you said,
five years ago,
things opened up drastically
within the disclosure realm.
And now I believe, eventually,
it's going to happen.
>> Now, for the interest
of transparency and also
disclosure, I feel he's
still with the company.
I think you're still employed.
And so are you still
in direct contact
with various entities,
three-letter agencies,
the Pentagon, the military?
>> I interface with them.
I interface with
people that are still
active within the
three-letter agencies.
I'm not directly
involved with any
of the three-letter agencies.
I do interface with them.
>> Well, what is
this interaction that
you're referring to?
>> Well, in 2022, I was asked
to come to Washington, DC,
and speak with the Department
of Defense Inspector
General's office.
>> Last year.
>> I went up there
for five days.
I sat in a secure environment.
And they asked me questions
about what I used to do.
Now, these people
that are asking me
were not around back when I
was working in intelligence
in the '70s and '80s.
But they had my reports.
They would show me a report
that's heavily redacted
and asked me to talk
about this report.
>> Your own report.
>> My own report with my
name on it with a file number
pertaining to a--
well, back then
UFO investigation
or some other investigation
involving ETs.
I would look at this
report, and I'd say, well--
I don't remember.
This is 40 years ago.
I don't remember exactly what.
>> And it's redacted.
So the IG doesn't have
access to unredacted reports?
>> Exactly.
When I asked them for a cleared
report so I could read it,
they said, we can't
get one from OSI.
I said, well, why can't you?
You're the Department of Defense
Inspector General's office.
He says, you tell me why.
They won't give
us a cleared copy.
So I would have
to look through it
and try to remember what
I did or what I said.
And they showed me
three different reports.
And all pertain to
something that happened
in New Mexico or Nevada.
Well, they brought in another
agent who had worked with me.
He helped out because
he was involved
in some of these operations.
>> What were these--
I want to get to the working
group and the competition
that's going on right
now with disclosure.
And all of this has
something to do with that
because, apparently,
the IG is looking
at ET and UFO-related
reports written by you,
not reports about missile
testing or aircraft testing
or radar signatures.
These are reports specifically
about ET and craft and--
well, let's just say it--
UFOs and flying saucers.
>> Yes, exactly.
One of the cases
that I investigated
was a crashed craft.
We couldn't identify it
exactly-- what type of craft
it was.
We first thought it might have
been an experimental craft that
crashed maybe in Nevada
in the late '60s or '70s.
But it took them so long to
get the craft open and find
extraterrestrials on
board, then realized
it wasn't a terrestrial craft.
It came from another planet.
It was an
extraterrestrial craft.
I was on the periphery of
that as a counterintelligence
officer, protecting
that operation,
protecting the recovery.
We did get bodies
out, four bodies.
Grusch refers to this.
It is the hands-on case.
Myself, and they brought
up 16 other people
that were involved in this
operation, not all OSI agents.
There were other
people, Air Force people
involved with the Air Force
Scientific Research center
at Los Alamos and DIA
personnel, the Air Force Weapons
Laboratory at Kirtland
Air Force Base.
These people were all
brought up to Washington back
in those days in 2022
when I was up there.
And they were interviewing
them, too, not together.
We were all separate.
And they were trying to
get to the bottom of this
and trying to find out,
what did they find?
And where did they
take the bodies?
>> Do we know?
Was it a crash?
Was it shot down, and when?
>> It'd been out
there for a while.
And this was in southwestern
Nevada, west of Pahrump,
probably over 100
miles from Las Vegas.
>> I've got a shot of you
on your first day on the job
as an agent for the Air
Force Office of Special
Investigations.
And as we pop this up, now
you're slim and trim and young.
Was this an orientation
of things that subjects
were talked about?
Were UFOs and ET
and the alien agenda
discussed on your first day?
>> No, this is in 1977.
This is actually my
first day on the job.
These two other people in the
picture, I worked with them.
This is the
counterintelligence office.
So three of us were assigned to
counterintelligence operations.
At that point, at that time, I
didn't know anything about UFOs
or how or why the Air Force
was investigating UFOs.
I wasn't briefed into the
program until two years later.
>> Very interesting.
And it's all a part of
the journey, isn't it,
and why we are sitting here
today, and it started there.
You have presented
us with some images
of some reverse
engineering facilities.
And before we bring
these up, David Grusch
mentions all of this
under oath with Congress.
And he says, I've
got the locations.
I've got the addresses, and I
can present all of this to you.
I can tell you where
the pilots are.
And we learned a
new word, biologics,
and a very, very intense
testimony that went down.
But the question that Congress
or the Senate or anybody
would have listening to those,
including myself, listening
to something like this is,
where are these facilities?
So let's look at this
first image here.
This is the reverse
engineering facility for craft,
not of this Earth and
planet, at Area 51.
Pull this up for us, Josh.
What are we looking at here?
>> This is the above ground
facility where research
and development takes place
on extraterrestrial biologics
and extraterrestrial
devices and crafts.
And now as been
mentioned before,
we didn't just recover a craft.
We recovered devices
within the craft,
and that we've taken out.
And we try to
figure out what they
are used for, for instance,
an energy device or maybe
a weapon system or maybe a
battery, some type of battery,
or some type of
propulsion system.
And so they're taken out
into a remote location,
such as this place, and
they're experimented with.
They're looked into because
we don't know what they are.
And we have to be careful
that we don't harm ourselves
in trying to delve
into these things.
So that's why they put
them in these facilities
in very, very remote areas.
And this is within the
Nellis Test and Training
Range, southern Nellis
Test and Training site,
which is south of Groom Lake.
It's in that area.
And all these facilities
are remotely built.
So they're away from
private property
and the public just
in case something
happens because, again, we're
taking these devices out,
and we're trying to
understand what they are.
And it could be a weapon system.
>> It could be dangerous.
>> So Area 51, originally funded
and built for and by the CIA,
but is it now primarily an
Air Force research facility?
Or is it still an agency
research facility?
>> Well, in 1973, the Central
Intelligence Agency turned Area
51 over to the United
States Air Force.
But that's just ownership.
That's just janitorial reasons.
CIA stayed out there, and they
had a research and development
unit out there.
And I'm sure, although I don't
know for sure but I'm sure,
that they're still there today
amongst other three-letter
agencies--
Defense Intelligence Agency,
the National Security Agency,
probably even NRO, National
Reconnaissance Office.
They're all out there
along with contractors.
>> Now, the competition
between these agencies,
are they cooperating?
Or are they used to running
things their own way
and not giving up?
How do we know
that they are being
open with this information,
and that they're still
withholding the good stuff?
>> We don't.
They don't cooperate.
The DIA, the CIA, the
United States Space Force,
a new agency, a new
military branch,
they're not cooperating.
The United States Space
Force, one of the spokesmen
that came out in Colorado
Springs and says,
you know what, we're
not cooperating
with the congressional
investigations on this
because we can't disclose
classified information,
because a lot of what they
have and other agencies
are still classified.
>> Well, are they always
going to instantly fall under
national security, right?
And once you put that
tag on it, everybody
gets nervous and backs off
because they don't want to mess
with national security.
And it seems to be a catch-all
with all of these agencies
and comments from
different witnesses
that they can't talk
about it in the interests
of national security.
How are we going to get
anywhere if we always
have this in front of us?
>> Well, that's a good question
because that's exactly what
they hide behind.
When asked a question about the
subject, they're going to say,
we can't release
sources or methods.
Now, having worked
in the intelligence
for a number of years, I know
what sources and methods are.
And you can put
almost any information
gathered into that category,
which would keep it away
from the public.
Now, recently, under the
National Defense Authorization
Act, which is pending,
Senator Schumer
wrote a bill that would try
to clarify some of that.
But there's still-- if it's
under a Special Access Program,
or SAP, it's not releasable.
The bill that was presented
for the NDAA by Chuck Schumer,
I'm not sure that the
president will sign that.
But remember, these reports have
a category saying unclassified.
And whenever you see something
unclassified in a document
that the government
releases, that
means there's a classified
report someplace,
just like AARO just released
a report recently about 800
reports filtered through them.
Well, those 800 reports
are the unclassified.
The classified ones,
which we understand,
although I don't
know for a fact,
can be considered top
secret because were reported
by a source or a method,
such as a satellite that's
a classified satellite.
Well, NASA, as people
think, is a private--
>> Civilian.
>> Civilian agency.
That's exactly the
word, civilian agency.
But do you realize that NASA
has over 600 military people
working there?
They have five different
controlled environment
facilities, meaning
they're Special Access
Facilities, or SCIFs,
that they house
classified information in.
They're a civilian agency.
What are they doing with
classified information?
Well, they have
satellites out there.
And they're collecting
things and pictures
that they can't
release to the public.
But what they're doing
now, as they admit,
is if they get something
that they don't understand,
they're immediately
filtering that to the NRO.
We're not going to get
anything from the NRO
because that's a military
agency, the National
Reconnaissance Office.
>> The problem that we have with
the NRO is that it's the one
agency we know the least about.
It's the most secretive,
and it's also the largest.
It has the most employees.
It's the most intense
intelligence gathering
apparatus that we have,
runs in virtual secrecy.
And they are in control of
everything that they do.
>> That's absolutely right.
And they have 32 classified
operating locations
around the world
that we don't know
where they are, although we
can guess that some of them
are probably in Australia and
one in New Zealand and one
on a remote island
in the South Atlantic
and one on a remote island
in the South Indian Ocean.
But they're not
going to tell us.
If you google this and
try to research it,
and many people have
tried, you come up blank.
You just submit a
FOIA request to NRO.
They don't give
you anything back.
And you have to respond--
in accordance with Title 5
United States Code Freedom
of Information Act, they give
each agency a time period.
NRO violates that time period
on every single FOIA request.
>> So when it comes
to whistleblowers,
which is certainly part of
the actions in the NDAA,
which has become law, is
that they are protected.
And more whistleblowers
are coming forward.
I'm meeting them and speaking
with them, and so are you.
But you have provided an image
of a craft that was apparently
shot down by an F-22 pilot,
who has now stepped forward,
the pilot that shot
this craft down.
Do you expect him to testify
either with the Senate
or with the House?
>> Well, we work more
closely with the Senate.
He's a whistleblower within
the Department of Defense.
He's been cleared
as a whistleblower.
>> Vetted.
He is a legitimate person.
Our group has
interviewed him, but he's
very careful about
what he can say.
Now, he's not going to
disclose classified information
to anyone, because there's
certain things that he did
or saw, certain
techniques that he used,
his aircraft and
his wingman aircraft
used that he can't talk about.
And we understand that.
We don't want any
methods or sources.
All we want is
for him to testify
that he was in that
cockpit, and he
pulled the trigger on
that Sidewinder missile
that shot down an object that
he didn't know what it was.
But he was given permission by
the command authority when--
and the command authority
is the White House.
It goes through the Pentagon
and to the White House.
So the President of
the United States
said, yeah, go ahead
and shoot it down,
and he did, and it crashed.
And he can testify
to that part of it.
>> Now, this is the image here.
Take us through what
we are looking at.
>> This is an image
on the ground,
one from the air and one on the
ground, of what was shot down.
I don't know what that is.
The second whistleblower that we
want to bring out to the public
is a civilian.
He works for the oil company
up there, the drilling teams.
He was a member of the search
and rescue on a helicopter.
He's never been in
the military, nothing
to do with the military.
But his aircraft he
was in landed out there
because they thought it
was a civilian airliner
or some other civilian craft,
a terrestrial craft that
had crashed.
He was the first one out there.
He was on the ground, and
he took some pictures.
I'm not going to say
he took this picture.
But he took some pictures.
>> Is he freer to discuss
because of not being a military
officer, freer to
talk about this?
He's not under the constraints
of an NDA, or a National
Security Clearance, or
anything like that, right?
>> Exactly.
He's free to testify.
He's free to come on this show
and talk about what he did.
Now, he can't tell
you what that is.
And he can't tell you
what he was told it was.
But he was told what it was,
but he can't talk about that.
That's the only thing
he can't talk about.
But he can talk about
everything he did.
He got in a helicopter.
He flew out there.
It was a private helicopter,
owned by oil company up there.
And he landed, and he got
out with another person.
But he was the only one that
actually approached the craft.
>> Now, OK, so the top image,
was that taken from the F-22?
>> I can't say where
each one was taken.
But both of them are
images of the craft
that the F-22 shot down.
>> OK, so you're confident
those are the same craft?
>> Absolutely.
>> They do have the same shape.
Josh, what do you make
of that bottom image?
>> Well, a couple of things.
One, this reminds me of
the Tic Tac UFO from the--
>> The top image?
>> The bottom one looks a
little "Star Wars" to me.
But I'm noticing a lot
of rivets and holes
in it, which suggests--
>> Feels terrestrial.
>> It feels man-made.
>> Yeah, it does.
It does to me too.
>> The top one has less
detail, but you can't tell.
>> Yeah, the front--
well, I don't know the
front from the back.
But the round portions of
both images feel the same.
>> Yeah, yeah, is guy
threatened in any way,
could not say anything?
>> That's a great question.
>> No, but here's the question
I would ask is if this was
a terrestrial craft, why can't
the government say here it is
and explain what it is?
>> Well, we had that problem
with the surveillance balloons
when we were trigger-happy
shooting missiles over North
America, too, as well.
We still don't know what
we were shooting down.
But that's a very
interesting point.
Let's talk about the working
group that you've put together.
You said that you're working
with Rubio in the Senate
Intelligence Committee.
What's that interaction about?
>> Well, we're trying
to get disclosure.
And we're trying to
facilitate people
to bring up to be interviewed.
And we don't work actually
directly every day
with Senator Rubio.
We work with staffers.
And the staffers will interview
people that we bring to them.
Some of the staffers
have security clearances,
and some of them don't.
So they have to be careful
the questions they ask
and the people that
we bring to them.
But there's other
groups that are
doing the same thing that
we do, Lue Elizondo's group.
We don't interface
that much with them.
There's also a
group of scientists.
I don't know a whole
lot about them,
but these are all scientists.
Some of them are MIT, Stanford
scientists or professors that
are involved in this subject.
>> Here's the
million-dollar question.
Does the Air Force
still investigate UFOs?
Do they have their
own office dealing
with this independent
of everything else that
is going on?
>> Yes, they do.
The same agency I used to
work for, the Air Force
Office of Special Investigations
counterintelligence branch,
they do still investigate.
If it involves Air Force
resources, Air Force property,
or Air Force personnel, or
happens on an Air Force base
or near Air Force base,
they will investigate it.
So they still do it absolutely.
>> Now, after Project Blue
Book was shut down 1969--
OK, we're going back
a few decades here.
But after that
point, I think that--
and I don't think
that I'm wrong.
I think that the Air
Force got very comfortable
in keeping their mouth shut
and not saying anything.
And if anybody
brought anything up,
they didn't have to respond.
Blue Book is closed down.
There's nothing to see here.
This is our official position.
And they operated like
that until this very day.
When Chris Mellon wrote
his op-ed two years ago,
criticizing the way things
were moving forward,
one of the points
that he brought up--
and it should be
discussed today--
was that there was
a secure chat room
at the Pentagon for
everybody to gather
from the different branches
and talk about UAP issues.
And the Air Force was
involved with that.
And when certain officials
inside of the Air Force
found out that the Air
Force personnel were
part of this chat, literally,
a chat room discussing UAPs,
they were told to
back off and not
to say anything or participate
in this chat room anymore.
When Chris presented
this to the world,
I would have thought that there
would have been an uproar,
and that there should have been
some journalism applied to this
and questions asked.
If there's nothing
to see here, then why
are you pulling your
own personnel out
of a secure chat
room at the Pentagon
that's discussing UAPs?
That indicates to me that
the Air Force just wants
to keep control of the subject.
Am I wrong?
>> No, you're absolutely right.
In 1969, when the
Cottenham report came out,
Air Force had a way
to get out of it,
to close Project Blue Book.
And the Air Force
wants to get out of it.
Well, only through the public
eye because, obviously,
in 1977, '78, '79
through 1988, I
was a member of the
Air Force Office
of Special Investigation,
and I investigated UFOs.
So the Air Force still was me
and 122 other special agents.
And so what happened
in 1969 Air Force says,
OK, we're out of it.
We can give you the public
information on that.
We're not investigating
it anymore.
Well, there was so much
information gathered
that the Air Force had, they
didn't know what to do with it.
Well, DIA, which was fairly new.
DIA was created in 1961.
So 1969, the DIA didn't
really have a whole lot.
They had military
stuff they were doing.
DIA raised their hand and
said, we'll take your stuff.
We'll take it.
So the central depository for
all UFO information after 1969
didn't go to the Air Force.
They went to the DIA.
And I can tell you
for a fact, when
I was briefed into the subject
in 1979, one of the things
that I probably would
get in trouble for,
but the reporting
system for anything
pertaining to UFOs, ETs, or
we had other nomenclature,
went to DIA.
It didn't go to Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
We had a separate
reporting channel
directly to DIA, not
to the Air Force Office
of Special Investigation.
Now, our supervisors
in headquarters
would get a copy of
whatever we presented,
the reports that we presented.
But everything was
filed over in DIA.
And that's where the
central depository is at,
Bolling Air Force base,
at least during my time.
Now, is it still there?
I can guarantee you
it's still there
because we have a person that
will testify in Congress.
He works in DIA.
And he will testify that he has
filing cabinets behind his desk
that contain UFO data that
is still highly classified.
>> David Grusch got up in
front of Congress under oath
and said, we've
got alien bodies.
Now we're talking about
bodies, bodies on ice.
Maybe some are alive.
We've got an image here
of exactly that, what
David Grusch was talking about,
which is called the creature
containment facility.
Now, if that doesn't
freak you out,
just the title of
it, and at Area 51.
Let's pull this up, Josh.
Tell me, Mr. Doty, what
are we looking at here?
>> This is a picture
of the former--
I can say former because I don't
know if they're still there
but at least during my time.
That's a creature containment
facility northwest of S2
complex.
>> Creature
containment facility.
>> Yes, creature
containment facility,
which is northwest of Papoose
Lake, 15 miles northwest.
You can google this, and you
can see this exact image.
Now, I don't know if
there's ET still there.
But I know at my time
at Area 51 and the two
times I was there in '84 and
'85, we had live ETs there.
>> Did you ever
visit this facility?
>> No, I was never
briefed into this.
I didn't have a
clearance to go there.
>> Now, when you
say we had live ETs,
was this the chatter
in the cafeteria?
Or did you hear about this
in a more official sense?
>> In building 432, which is
the OSI office at Area 51,
there were five agents, the
supervisor and four agents.
We each had the need
to know, so to speak.
We had our own operations.
And if we needed help, we
could give limited briefings
to another agent so they
could help us on an operation.
At one point in 1984, one of
the agents came to me and said,
hey, listen, I need your help.
We need to go out and
investigate something,
but I need another agent.
I said, fine.
What are we going into?
And he told me a
visitor that was
housed in a creature containment
facility had escaped.
>> Was it from this facility?
And is this one of the
facilities that David Grusch is
going to reveal to
Congress in the SCIF
when he says he's got
addresses and locations?
Is this one of them?
>> I would guess it was.
I don't know for a fact
what he's going to disclose.
But I would say that
this was one of them.
There were others, but
The bodies were actually
transported from--
that we recovered over
the years from Wright-Patt
to the Armed Forces
Institute of Pathology,
which doesn't exist anymore.
And that's one of the
places that Dr. Kit Green
had talked about.
They have a secret facility
underground facility,
or they did because it
doesn't exist anymore
in Washington, DC.
So if you google the Armed
Forces Institute of Pathology,
there was a big facility.
And they did a
lot of experiments
on a number of
things, on autopsies,
on servicemen that
died mysteriously.
You're going to find out that
there was this facility there.
But this is alive.
This is where the
live ones were kept.
Now, I'm not going to go into
great details of what we did.
We didn't find the creatures.
The military police did.
How he escaped, I don't
know anything about that.
I was just told a
limited briefing.
So then I knew that's
where they were kept.
>> Well, Rick, one
last question is,
what's your take on disclosure?
Now, that's a broad question.
But there's a lot of
anticipation of things going
down in the next few months.
But what's your take on it?
And how do you think it's
going to happen and when?
>> Everything's
been pushed back.
There's crisis within
the Senate and the House
that's pushed everything back.
I think we were scheduled
to have a Senate hearing
because the House had hearings.
The Senate was supposed
to have hearings.
That didn't go through because
of other pressing issues
within the Senate.
Senator Schumer, the Majority
Leader in the Senate,
tried to help,
tried to facilitate
some type of disclosure
program for the Senate.
That didn't happen.
So there's a consensus among
the different working groups
that we're going to
do our own disclosure.
And we hope to have that
set up sometime in December.
There's a lot of factors
working against us.
The government is
The intelligence community
is working against us.
And so if we can
facilitate it and have one,
we're going to bring in
whistleblowers that we know of,
and that's been
vetted by the DOD.
And we're going to
have them testify.
>> Josh, here's
your opportunity.
You've got a secret agent
in front of you that
is dealing with working groups.
There's got to be
something going on.
>> Yeah, what is
the deal with that?
So this seems to be
multiple groups that
are working for disclosure.
Are they working together?
Are you battling
these other groups?
Or is there synergy there?
>> Well, there is somewhat of a
competition between the working
groups.
We certainly want to bring
forth our own whistleblowers,
the one we've helped
bring to Washington, DC.
And we want our agenda
top billing, so to speak.
And there's other groups,
such as Lue Elizondo--
and I respect him 1,000%--
that wants another agenda.
I don't know exactly what the
other group's agendas are.
Some of them are actually
against disclosures.
And so that's the
competition that we
have amongst the
different working groups.
>> Vicious.
>> I don't like that.
I don't like that.
That's trouble.
>> Intense.
For "Into the Vortex,"
I'm Jimmy Church,
and we'll see you next time.